doc/plugins/math-and-code.rst, before:

..
    This file is part of m.css.

    Copyright © 2017 Vladimír Vondruš <mosra@centrum.cz>

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
..

Math and code
#############

:breadcrumb: {filename}/plugins.rst Pelican plugins
:footer:
    .. note-dim::
        :class: m-text-center

        `« Images <{filename}/plugins/images.rst>`_ | `Pelican plugins <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ | `Links » <{filename}/plugins/links.rst>`_

.. role:: css(code)
    :language: css
.. role:: html(code)
    :language: html
.. role:: py(code)
    :language: py
.. role:: rst(code)
    :language: rst

These plugins use external libraries to produce beautiful math and code
rendering directly from your :abbr:`reST <reStructuredText>` sources.

.. contents::
    :class: m-block m-default

`Math`_
=======

Download the `m/math.py and m/latex2svg.py <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ files,
put them including the ``m/`` directory into one of your :py:`PLUGIN_PATHS` and
add :py:`m.math` package to your :py:`PLUGINS` in ``pelicanconf.py``. This
plugin assumes presence of `m.htmlsanity <{filename}/plugins/htmlsanity.rst>`_.

.. code:: python

    PLUGINS += ['m.htmlsanity', 'm.math']

In addition you need some LaTeX distribution installed. Use your distribution
package manager, for example on Ubuntu:

.. code:: sh

    sudo apt-get install texlive-base texlive-latex-extra texlive-fonts-extra

.. block-warning:: Note for macOS users

    On macOS 10.11 and up, if you use MacTex, there's some additional setup
    needed `as detailed here <https://tex.stackexchange.com/a/249967>`_ --- you
    need to update your :sh:`$PATH` so the binaries are properly found:

    .. code:: sh

        export PATH=$PATH:/Library/TeX/Distributions/.DefaultTeX/Contents/Programs/texbin

.. note-success::

    This plugin makes use of the ``latex2svg.py`` utility from :gh:`tuxu/latex2svg`,
    © 2017 `Tino Wagner <http://www.tinowagner.com/>`_, licensed under
    :gh:`MIT <tuxu/latex2svg$master/LICENSE.md>`.

The plugin overrides the builtin docutils
`math directive <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#math>`_
and `math interpreted text role <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/roles.html#math>`_
and:

-   Instead of relying on MathML or MathJax, converts input LaTeX math formula
    to a SVG file, which is then embedded directly to the page. All glyphs are
    converted to paths.
-   Adds a :html:`<title>` and :html:`<desc>` containing the original formula
    to the generated :html:`<svg>` element for accessibility.

Put `math blocks <{filename}/css/components.rst#math>`_ into the :rst:`.. math::`
directive; if you want to color the equations, add corresponding
`CSS class <{filename}/css/components.rst#colors>`_ via a :rst:`:class:`
option. Equations separated by a blank line are processed separately.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. math::
            :class: m-success

            \boldsymbol{A} = \begin{pmatrix}
                \frac{2n}{s_x} & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
                0 & \frac{2n}{s_y} & 0 & 0 \\
                0 & 0 & \frac{n + f}{n - f} & \frac{2nf}{n - f} \\
                0 & 0 & -1 & 0
            \end{pmatrix}

    .. math::
        :class: m-success

        \boldsymbol{A} = \begin{pmatrix}
            \frac{2n}{s_x} & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
            0 & \frac{2n}{s_y} & 0 & 0 \\
            0 & 0 & \frac{n + f}{n - f} & \frac{2nf}{n - f} \\
            0 & 0 & -1 & 0
        \end{pmatrix}

Inline math can be wrapped in the :rst:`:math:` interpreted text role. If you
want to add additional CSS classes, derive a custom role from it.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. role:: math-info(math)
            :class: m-info

        Quaternion-conjugated dual quaternion is :math-info:`\hat q^* = q_0^* + q_\epsilon^*`,
        while dual-conjugation gives :math:`\overline{\hat q} = q_0 - \epsilon q_\epsilon`.

    .. role:: math-info(math)
        :class: m-info

    Quaternion-conjugated dual quaternion is :math-info:`\hat q^* = q_0^* + q_\epsilon^*`,
    while dual-conjugation gives :math:`\overline{\hat q} = q_0 - \epsilon q_\epsilon`.

`Code`_
=======

Download the `m/code.py <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ file, put it including the
``m/`` directory into one of your :py:`PLUGIN_PATHS` and add :py:`m.code`
package to your :py:`PLUGINS` in ``pelicanconf.py``. This plugin assumes
presence of `m.htmlsanity <{filename}/plugins/htmlsanity.rst>`_.

.. code:: python

    PLUGINS += ['m-htmlsanity', 'm.code']

In addition you need to have `Pygments <http://pygments.org>`_ installed. Get
it via ``pip`` or your distribution package manager:

.. code:: sh

    pip3 install Pygments

The plugin overrides the builtin docutils
`code directive <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#code>`_
and `code interpreted text role <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/roles.html#code>`_,
replaces `Pelican code-block directive <http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.6.3/content.html#syntax-highlighting>`_ and:

-   Wraps Pygments output in :html:`<code>` element for inline code and
    :html:`<pre>` element for code blocks with :css:`.m-code` CSS class
    applied.
-   Removes useless CSS classes from the output.

Put `code blocks <{filename}/css/components.rst#code>`_ into the :rst:`.. code::`
directive and specify the language via a parameter. Use :rst:`:hl_lines:`
option to highlight lines; if you want to add additional CSS classes, use the
:rst:`:class:` option.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. code:: c++
            :hl_lines: 4 5
            :class: m-inverted

            #include <iostream>

            int main() {
                std::cout << "Hello world!" << std::endl;
                return 0;
            }

    .. code:: c++
        :hl_lines: 4 5
        :class: m-inverted

        #include <iostream>

        int main() {
            std::cout << "Hello world!" << std::endl;
            return 0;
        }

The builtin `include directive <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#include>`_
is also patched to use the improved code directive. Simply specify external
code snippets filename and set the language using the :rst:`:code:` option.
All options of the :rst:`.. code::` directive are supported as well.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. include:: snippet.cpp
            :code: c++
            :start-line: 2

    .. include:: math-and-code-snippet.cpp
        :code: c++
        :start-line: 2

.. note-info::

    Note that the :rst:`.. include::` directives are processed before Pelican
    comes into play, and thus no special internal linking capabilities are
    supported. In particular, relative paths are assumed to be relative to path
    of the source file.

For inline code highlighting, use :rst:`:code:` interpreted text role. To
specify which language should be highlighted, derive a custom role from it:

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. role:: cmake(code)
            :language: cmake

        .. role:: cpp(code)
            :language: cpp

        With the :cmake:`add_executable(foo bar.cpp)` CMake command you can create an
        executable from a file that contains just :cpp:`int main() { return 666; }` and
        nothing else.

    .. role:: cmake(code)
        :language: cmake

    .. role:: cpp(code)
        :language: cpp

    With the :cmake:`add_executable(foo bar.cpp)` CMake command you can create
    an executable from a file that contains just :cpp:`int main() { return 666; }`
    and nothing else.

`Colored terminal output`_
--------------------------

Use the ``ansi`` pseudo-language for highlighting
`colored terminal output <{filename}/css/components.rst#colored-terminal-output>`_.
The plugin will take care of the rest like using the custom Pygments lexer and
assigning a proper CSS class. Because ANSI escape codes might cause problems
with some editors and look confusing when viewed via :sh:`git diff` on the
terminal, it's best to have the listings in external files and use
:rst:`.. include::`:

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. include:: console.ansi
            :code: ansi

    .. include:: math-and-code-console.ansi
        :code: ansi

Commit message:

doc: mention minimal Python versions for theme and plugins.

doc/plugins/math-and-code.rst, after:

..
    This file is part of m.css.

    Copyright © 2017 Vladimír Vondruš <mosra@centrum.cz>

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
..

Math and code
#############

:breadcrumb: {filename}/plugins.rst Pelican plugins
:footer:
    .. note-dim::
        :class: m-text-center

        `« Images <{filename}/plugins/images.rst>`_ | `Pelican plugins <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ | `Links » <{filename}/plugins/links.rst>`_

.. role:: css(code)
    :language: css
.. role:: html(code)
    :language: html
.. role:: py(code)
    :language: py
.. role:: rst(code)
    :language: rst

These plugins use external libraries to produce beautiful math and code
rendering directly from your :abbr:`reST <reStructuredText>` sources.

.. contents::
    :class: m-block m-default

`Math`_
=======

Download the `m/math.py and m/latex2svg.py <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ files,
put them including the ``m/`` directory into one of your :py:`PLUGIN_PATHS` and
add :py:`m.math` package to your :py:`PLUGINS` in ``pelicanconf.py``. This
plugin assumes presence of `m.htmlsanity <{filename}/plugins/htmlsanity.rst>`_.

.. note-danger::

    Note that this plugin, unlike most of the others, requires at least Python
    3.5 to run properly.

.. code:: python

    PLUGINS += ['m.htmlsanity', 'm.math']

In addition you need some LaTeX distribution installed. Use your distribution
package manager, for example on Ubuntu:

.. code:: sh

    sudo apt-get install texlive-base texlive-latex-extra texlive-fonts-extra

.. block-warning:: Note for macOS users

    On macOS 10.11 and up, if you use MacTex, there's some additional setup
    needed `as detailed here <https://tex.stackexchange.com/a/249967>`_ --- you
    need to update your :sh:`$PATH` so the binaries are properly found:

    .. code:: sh

        export PATH=$PATH:/Library/TeX/Distributions/.DefaultTeX/Contents/Programs/texbin

.. note-success::

    This plugin makes use of the ``latex2svg.py`` utility from :gh:`tuxu/latex2svg`,
    © 2017 `Tino Wagner <http://www.tinowagner.com/>`_, licensed under
    :gh:`MIT <tuxu/latex2svg$master/LICENSE.md>`.

The plugin overrides the builtin docutils
`math directive <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#math>`_
and `math interpreted text role <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/roles.html#math>`_
and:

-   Instead of relying on MathML or MathJax, converts input LaTeX math formula
    to a SVG file, which is then embedded directly to the page. All glyphs are
    converted to paths.
-   Adds a :html:`<title>` and :html:`<desc>` containing the original formula
    to the generated :html:`<svg>` element for accessibility.

Put `math blocks <{filename}/css/components.rst#math>`_ into the :rst:`.. math::`
directive; if you want to color the equations, add corresponding
`CSS class <{filename}/css/components.rst#colors>`_ via a :rst:`:class:`
option. Equations separated by a blank line are processed separately.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. math::
            :class: m-success

            \boldsymbol{A} = \begin{pmatrix}
                \frac{2n}{s_x} & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
                0 & \frac{2n}{s_y} & 0 & 0 \\
                0 & 0 & \frac{n + f}{n - f} & \frac{2nf}{n - f} \\
                0 & 0 & -1 & 0
            \end{pmatrix}

    .. math::
        :class: m-success

        \boldsymbol{A} = \begin{pmatrix}
            \frac{2n}{s_x} & 0 & 0 & 0 \\
            0 & \frac{2n}{s_y} & 0 & 0 \\
            0 & 0 & \frac{n + f}{n - f} & \frac{2nf}{n - f} \\
            0 & 0 & -1 & 0
        \end{pmatrix}

Inline math can be wrapped in the :rst:`:math:` interpreted text role. If you
want to add additional CSS classes, derive a custom role from it.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. role:: math-info(math)
            :class: m-info

        Quaternion-conjugated dual quaternion is :math-info:`\hat q^* = q_0^* + q_\epsilon^*`,
        while dual-conjugation gives :math:`\overline{\hat q} = q_0 - \epsilon q_\epsilon`.

    .. role:: math-info(math)
        :class: m-info

    Quaternion-conjugated dual quaternion is :math-info:`\hat q^* = q_0^* + q_\epsilon^*`,
    while dual-conjugation gives :math:`\overline{\hat q} = q_0 - \epsilon q_\epsilon`.

`Code`_
=======

Download the `m/code.py <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ file, put it including the
``m/`` directory into one of your :py:`PLUGIN_PATHS` and add :py:`m.code`
package to your :py:`PLUGINS` in ``pelicanconf.py``. This plugin assumes
presence of `m.htmlsanity <{filename}/plugins/htmlsanity.rst>`_.

.. code:: python

    PLUGINS += ['m-htmlsanity', 'm.code']

In addition you need to have `Pygments <http://pygments.org>`_ installed. Get
it via ``pip`` or your distribution package manager:

.. code:: sh

    pip3 install Pygments

The plugin overrides the builtin docutils
`code directive <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#code>`_
and `code interpreted text role <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/roles.html#code>`_,
replaces `Pelican code-block directive <http://docs.getpelican.com/en/3.6.3/content.html#syntax-highlighting>`_ and:

-   Wraps Pygments output in :html:`<code>` element for inline code and
    :html:`<pre>` element for code blocks with :css:`.m-code` CSS class
    applied.
-   Removes useless CSS classes from the output.

Put `code blocks <{filename}/css/components.rst#code>`_ into the :rst:`.. code::`
directive and specify the language via a parameter. Use :rst:`:hl_lines:`
option to highlight lines; if you want to add additional CSS classes, use the
:rst:`:class:` option.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. code:: c++
            :hl_lines: 4 5
            :class: m-inverted

            #include <iostream>

            int main() {
                std::cout << "Hello world!" << std::endl;
                return 0;
            }

    .. code:: c++
        :hl_lines: 4 5
        :class: m-inverted

        #include <iostream>

        int main() {
            std::cout << "Hello world!" << std::endl;
            return 0;
        }

The builtin `include directive <http://docutils.sourceforge.net/docs/ref/rst/directives.html#include>`_
is also patched to use the improved code directive. Simply specify external
code snippets filename and set the language using the :rst:`:code:` option.
All options of the :rst:`.. code::` directive are supported as well.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. include:: snippet.cpp
            :code: c++
            :start-line: 2

    .. include:: math-and-code-snippet.cpp
        :code: c++
        :start-line: 2

.. note-info::

    Note that the :rst:`.. include::` directives are processed before Pelican
    comes into play, and thus no special internal linking capabilities are
    supported. In particular, relative paths are assumed to be relative to path
    of the source file.

For inline code highlighting, use :rst:`:code:` interpreted text role. To
specify which language should be highlighted, derive a custom role from it:

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. role:: cmake(code)
            :language: cmake

        .. role:: cpp(code)
            :language: cpp

        With the :cmake:`add_executable(foo bar.cpp)` CMake command you can create an
        executable from a file that contains just :cpp:`int main() { return 666; }` and
        nothing else.

    .. role:: cmake(code)
        :language: cmake

    .. role:: cpp(code)
        :language: cpp

    With the :cmake:`add_executable(foo bar.cpp)` CMake command you can create
    an executable from a file that contains just :cpp:`int main() { return 666; }`
    and nothing else.

`Colored terminal output`_
--------------------------

Use the ``ansi`` pseudo-language for highlighting
`colored terminal output <{filename}/css/components.rst#colored-terminal-output>`_.
The plugin will take care of the rest like using the custom Pygments lexer and
assigning a proper CSS class. Because ANSI escape codes might cause problems
with some editors and look confusing when viewed via :sh:`git diff` on the
terminal, it's best to have the listings in external files and use
:rst:`.. include::`:

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. include:: console.ansi
            :code: ansi

    .. include:: math-and-code-console.ansi
        :code: ansi
