doc/plugins/plots.rst, before:

..
    This file is part of m.css.

    Copyright © 2017, 2018 Vladimír Vondruš <mosra@centrum.cz>

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
..

Plots
#####

:breadcrumb: {filename}/plugins.rst Pelican plugins
:footer:
    .. note-dim::
        :class: m-text-center

        `« Math and code <{filename}/plugins/math-and-code.rst>`_ | `Pelican plugins <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ | `Links and other » <{filename}/plugins/math-and-code.rst>`_

Allows you to render plots directly from data specified inline in the page
source. Similarly to `math rendering <{filename}/admire/math.rst>`_, the plots
are rendered to a SVG that's embedded directly in the HTML markup.

.. contents::
    :class: m-block m-default

`How to use`_
=============

Download the `m/plots.py <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ file, put it including the
``m/`` directory into one of your :py:`PLUGIN_PATHS` and add ``m.plots``
package to your :py:`PLUGINS` in ``pelicanconf.py``.

.. code:: python

    PLUGINS += ['m.plots']

In addition you need the `Matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org/>`_ library
installed. Get it via ``pip`` or your distribution package manager:

.. code:: sh

    pip3 install matplotlib

The plugin produces SVG plots that make use of the
`CSS plot styling <{filename}/css/components.rst#plots>`_.

`Bar graphs`_
=============

Currently the only supported plot type is a horizontal bar graph, denoted by
:rst:`:type: hbar`:

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. plot:: Fastest animals
            :type: barh
            :labels:
                Cheetah
                Pronghorn
                Springbok
                Wildebeest
            :units: km/h
            :values: 109.4 88.5 88 80.5

    .. plot:: Fastest animals
        :type: barh
        :labels:
            Cheetah
            Pronghorn
            Springbok
            Wildebeest
        :units: km/h
        :values: 109.4 88.5 88 80.5

The multi-line :rst:`:labels:` option contain value labels, one per line. You
can specify unit label using :rst:`:units:`, particular values go into
:rst:`:values:` separated by whitespace, there should me as many values as
labels. Hovering over the bars will show the concrete value in a title.

It's also optionally possible to add error bars using :rst:`:error:` and
configure bar colors using :rst:`:colors:`. The colors correspond to m.css
`color classes <{filename}/css/components.rst#colors>`_ and you can either
use one color for all or one for each value, separated by whitespace. It's
possible to add an extra line of labels using :rst:`:labels_extra:`. Bar graph
height is calculated automatically based on amount of values, you can adjust
the bar height using :rst:`:bar_height:`. Default value is :py:`0.4`.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. plot:: Runtime cost
            :type: barh
            :labels:
                Ours minimal
                Ours default
                3rd party
                Full setup
            :labels_extra:
                15 modules
                60 modules
                200 modules
                for comparison
            :units: µs
            :values: 15.09 84.98 197.13 934.27
            :errors: 0.74 3.65 9.45 25.66
            :colors: success info danger dim
            :bar_height: 0.6

    .. plot:: Runtime cost
        :type: barh
        :labels:
            Ours minimal
            Ours default
            3rd party
            Full setup
        :labels_extra:
            15 modules
            60 modules
            200 modules
            for comparison
        :units: µs
        :values: 15.09 84.98 197.13 934.27
        :errors: 0.74 3.65 9.45 25.66
        :colors: success info danger dim
        :bar_height: 0.6

Commit message:

m.plots: make the font configurable so we can pass the CI.

doc/plugins/plots.rst, after:

..
    This file is part of m.css.

    Copyright © 2017, 2018 Vladimír Vondruš <mosra@centrum.cz>

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
..

Plots
#####

:breadcrumb: {filename}/plugins.rst Pelican plugins
:footer:
    .. note-dim::
        :class: m-text-center

        `« Math and code <{filename}/plugins/math-and-code.rst>`_ | `Pelican plugins <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ | `Links and other » <{filename}/plugins/math-and-code.rst>`_

Allows you to render plots directly from data specified inline in the page
source. Similarly to `math rendering <{filename}/admire/math.rst>`_, the plots
are rendered to a SVG that's embedded directly in the HTML markup.

.. contents::
    :class: m-block m-default

`How to use`_
=============

Download the `m/plots.py <{filename}/plugins.rst>`_ file, put it including the
``m/`` directory into one of your :py:`PLUGIN_PATHS` and add ``m.plots``
package to your :py:`PLUGINS` in ``pelicanconf.py``.

.. code:: python

    PLUGINS += ['m.plots']
    M_PLOTS_FONT = 'Source Sans Pro'

Set :py:`M_PLOTS_FONT` to a font that matches your CSS theme (it's Source Sans
Pro for `builtin m.css themes <{filename}/css/themes.rst>`_), note that you
*need to have the font installed* on your system, otherwise it will fall back
to whatever system font it finds instead (for example DejaVu Sans) and the
output won't look as expected. In addition you need the
`Matplotlib <https://matplotlib.org/>`_ library installed. Get it via ``pip``
or your distribution package manager:

.. code:: sh

    pip3 install matplotlib

The plugin produces SVG plots that make use of the
`CSS plot styling <{filename}/css/components.rst#plots>`_.

`Bar graphs`_
=============

Currently the only supported plot type is a horizontal bar graph, denoted by
:rst:`:type: hbar`:

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. plot:: Fastest animals
            :type: barh
            :labels:
                Cheetah
                Pronghorn
                Springbok
                Wildebeest
            :units: km/h
            :values: 109.4 88.5 88 80.5

    .. plot:: Fastest animals
        :type: barh
        :labels:
            Cheetah
            Pronghorn
            Springbok
            Wildebeest
        :units: km/h
        :values: 109.4 88.5 88 80.5

The multi-line :rst:`:labels:` option contain value labels, one per line. You
can specify unit label using :rst:`:units:`, particular values go into
:rst:`:values:` separated by whitespace, there should me as many values as
labels. Hovering over the bars will show the concrete value in a title.

It's also optionally possible to add error bars using :rst:`:error:` and
configure bar colors using :rst:`:colors:`. The colors correspond to m.css
`color classes <{filename}/css/components.rst#colors>`_ and you can either
use one color for all or one for each value, separated by whitespace. It's
possible to add an extra line of labels using :rst:`:labels_extra:`. Bar graph
height is calculated automatically based on amount of values, you can adjust
the bar height using :rst:`:bar_height:`. Default value is :py:`0.4`.

.. code-figure::

    .. code:: rst

        .. plot:: Runtime cost
            :type: barh
            :labels:
                Ours minimal
                Ours default
                3rd party
                Full setup
            :labels_extra:
                15 modules
                60 modules
                200 modules
                for comparison
            :units: µs
            :values: 15.09 84.98 197.13 934.27
            :errors: 0.74 3.65 9.45 25.66
            :colors: success info danger dim
            :bar_height: 0.6

    .. plot:: Runtime cost
        :type: barh
        :labels:
            Ours minimal
            Ours default
            3rd party
            Full setup
        :labels_extra:
            15 modules
            60 modules
            200 modules
            for comparison
        :units: µs
        :values: 15.09 84.98 197.13 934.27
        :errors: 0.74 3.65 9.45 25.66
        :colors: success info danger dim
        :bar_height: 0.6
