doc/css.rst, before:

..
    This file is part of m.css.

    Copyright © 2017 Vladimír Vondruš <mosra@centrum.cz>

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
..

CSS
###

.. role:: css(code)
    :language: css
.. role:: html(code)
    :language: html

The CSS style is the essence of ``m.css``. It makes use of HTML5 tags as much
as possible to avoid redundant classes. Contrary to other popular frameworks,
all custom CSS classes and IDs are prefixed with ``m-`` to avoid conflicts with
3rd party styles. All sizes, paddings and border widths are specified using
``rem`` units, relative to base page font size; :css:`box-sizing: border-box`
is applied to all elements by default.

`Quick start`_
==============

To make full advantage of ``m.css``, you need just three files written in plain
CSS. Download them below or :gh:`grab the whole Git repository <mosra/m.css>`:

-   :gh:`m-grid.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-grid.css>` with optional
    :gh:`m-debug.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-debug.css>`
-   :gh:`m-components.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-components.css>`
-   :gh:`m-dark.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-dark.css>` or
    :gh:`m-light.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-light.css>`

In addition to the above, if you want to present highlighted code snippets on
your website, there's also a builtin style for `Pygments <http://pygments.org/>`_,
matching ``m.css`` themes:

-   :gh:`pygments-dark.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/pygments-dark.css>`,
    generated from :gh:`pygments-dark.py <mosra/m.css$master/css/pygments-dark.py>`

Once you have the files, include them in your HTML markup. The top-level
``m-dark.css`` / ``m-light.css`` file includes the other via CSS :css:`@import`
statement, so you don't need to reference these. The dark theme uses the
`Source Sans Pro <https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro>`_ font for
copy and `Source Code Pro <https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Code+Pro>`_
font for pre-formatted text and code, which you need to reference as well. See
the `Themes <{filename}/css/themes.rst>`_ page for requirements of other
themes.

Besides that, in order to have devices recognize your website properly as
responsive and not zoom it all the way out to an unreadable mess, don't forget
to include a proper :html:`<meta>` tag. The HTML5 DOCTYPE is also required.

.. code:: html

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="m-dark.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Source+Code+Pro:400,400i,600%7CSource+Sans+Pro:400,400i,600&amp;subset=latin-ext" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
      </head>
      ...
    </html>

.. block-warning:: Browser compatibility

    Note that some older browsers have problems with CSS variables and
    :css:`@import` statements. Because of that, the builtin themes provide
    a ``*.compiled.css`` versions that are *post*\ processed without CSS
    variables or :css:`@import` statements. The compiled version includes also
    the Pygments style, all combined in one file:

    -   :gh:`m-dark.compiled.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-dark.compiled.css>`
        (:filesize:`{filename}/../css/m-dark.compiled.css`,
        :filesize-gz:`{filename}/../css/m-dark.compiled.css` compressed)
    -   :gh:`m-light.compiled.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-light.compiled.css>`
        (:filesize:`{filename}/../css/m-light.compiled.css`,
        :filesize-gz:`{filename}/../css/m-light.compiled.css` compressed)

    I recommend using the original files for development and switching to the
    compiled versions when publishing the website.

With this, you can start using the framework right away. Click the headings
below to get to know more.

`Grid system » <{filename}/css/grid.rst>`_
==========================================

The ``m-grid.css`` file provides a 12-column layout, inspired by
`Bootstrap <https://getbootstrap.com>`_. It provides a simple, easy-to-use
solution for modern responsive web development. It comes together with
``m-debug.css`` that helps debugging the most common mistakes in grid layouts.

`Typography » <{filename}/css/typography.rst>`_
===============================================

Sane default style for body text, paragraphs, lists, links, headings and other
common typographical elements, provided by the ``m-components.css`` file.

`Components » <{filename}/css/components.rst>`_
===============================================

The ``m-components.css`` file also contains styles for visual elements that add
more structure to your content. From simple notes and topic blocks, tables,
images or figures to complex elements like code snippets, math formulas or
image grid.

`Page layout » <{filename}/css/page-layout.rst>`_
=================================================

Besides that, ``m-components.css`` has also full-fledged collection of elements
to form not only the content, but the whole page including navigation ---
header and footer, section headings, article styling with sidebar and tag cloud
and more.

`Themes » <{filename}/css/themes.rst>`_
=======================================

Finally, ``m-dark.css`` and ``m-light.css`` use CSS variables to achieve easy
theming. Two builtin themes, used by the author himself on a bunch of websites
to guarantee that everything fits well together.

Commit message:

doc: mention server-side compression config for Apache.

doc/css.rst, after:

..
    This file is part of m.css.

    Copyright © 2017 Vladimír Vondruš <mosra@centrum.cz>

    Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a
    copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"),
    to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation
    the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense,
    and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the
    Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

    The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included
    in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

    THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
    IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
    FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL
    THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
    LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING
    FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER
    DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
..

CSS
###

.. role:: css(code)
    :language: css
.. role:: html(code)
    :language: html

The CSS style is the essence of ``m.css``. It makes use of HTML5 tags as much
as possible to avoid redundant classes. Contrary to other popular frameworks,
all custom CSS classes and IDs are prefixed with ``m-`` to avoid conflicts with
3rd party styles. All sizes, paddings and border widths are specified using
``rem`` units, relative to base page font size; :css:`box-sizing: border-box`
is applied to all elements by default.

`Quick start`_
==============

To make full advantage of ``m.css``, you need just three files written in plain
CSS. Download them below or :gh:`grab the whole Git repository <mosra/m.css>`:

-   :gh:`m-grid.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-grid.css>` with optional
    :gh:`m-debug.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-debug.css>`
-   :gh:`m-components.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-components.css>`
-   :gh:`m-dark.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-dark.css>` or
    :gh:`m-light.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-light.css>`

In addition to the above, if you want to present highlighted code snippets on
your website, there's also a builtin style for `Pygments <http://pygments.org/>`_,
matching ``m.css`` themes:

-   :gh:`pygments-dark.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/pygments-dark.css>`,
    generated from :gh:`pygments-dark.py <mosra/m.css$master/css/pygments-dark.py>`

Once you have the files, include them in your HTML markup. The top-level
``m-dark.css`` / ``m-light.css`` file includes the other via CSS :css:`@import`
statement, so you don't need to reference these. The dark theme uses the
`Source Sans Pro <https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Sans+Pro>`_ font for
copy and `Source Code Pro <https://fonts.google.com/specimen/Source+Code+Pro>`_
font for pre-formatted text and code, which you need to reference as well. See
the `Themes <{filename}/css/themes.rst>`_ page for requirements of other
themes.

Besides that, in order to have devices recognize your website properly as
responsive and not zoom it all the way out to an unreadable mess, don't forget
to include a proper :html:`<meta>` tag. The HTML5 DOCTYPE is also required.

.. code:: html

    <!DOCTYPE html>
    <html>
      <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="m-dark.css" />
        <link rel="stylesheet" href="https://fonts.googleapis.com/css?family=Source+Code+Pro:400,400i,600%7CSource+Sans+Pro:400,400i,600&amp;subset=latin-ext" />
        <meta name="viewport" content="width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0" />
      </head>
      ...
    </html>

.. block-warning:: Browser compatibility

    Note that some older browsers have problems with CSS variables and
    :css:`@import` statements. Because of that, the builtin themes provide
    a ``*.compiled.css`` versions that are *post*\ processed without CSS
    variables or :css:`@import` statements. The compiled version includes also
    the Pygments style, all combined in one file:

    -   :gh:`m-dark.compiled.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-dark.compiled.css>`
        (:filesize:`{filename}/../css/m-dark.compiled.css`,
        :filesize-gz:`{filename}/../css/m-dark.compiled.css` compressed)
    -   :gh:`m-light.compiled.css <mosra/m.css$master/css/m-light.compiled.css>`
        (:filesize:`{filename}/../css/m-light.compiled.css`,
        :filesize-gz:`{filename}/../css/m-light.compiled.css` compressed)

    I recommend using the original files for development and switching to the
    compiled versions when publishing the website.

.. block-info:: Tip: server-side compression

    Even though the CSS files are already quite small, enabling server-side
    compression will make your website load even faster. If you have an Apache
    server running, enabling the compression is just a matter of adding the
    following to your ``.htaccess`` file:

    .. code:: apache

        AddOutputFilter DEFLATE html css js

With this, you can start using the framework right away. Click the headings
below to get to know more.

`Grid system » <{filename}/css/grid.rst>`_
==========================================

The ``m-grid.css`` file provides a 12-column layout, inspired by
`Bootstrap <https://getbootstrap.com>`_. It provides a simple, easy-to-use
solution for modern responsive web development. It comes together with
``m-debug.css`` that helps debugging the most common mistakes in grid layouts.

`Typography » <{filename}/css/typography.rst>`_
===============================================

Sane default style for body text, paragraphs, lists, links, headings and other
common typographical elements, provided by the ``m-components.css`` file.

`Components » <{filename}/css/components.rst>`_
===============================================

The ``m-components.css`` file also contains styles for visual elements that add
more structure to your content. From simple notes and topic blocks, tables,
images or figures to complex elements like code snippets, math formulas or
image grid.

`Page layout » <{filename}/css/page-layout.rst>`_
=================================================

Besides that, ``m-components.css`` has also full-fledged collection of elements
to form not only the content, but the whole page including navigation ---
header and footer, section headings, article styling with sidebar and tag cloud
and more.

`Themes » <{filename}/css/themes.rst>`_
=======================================

Finally, ``m-dark.css`` and ``m-light.css`` use CSS variables to achieve easy
theming. Two builtin themes, used by the author himself on a bunch of websites
to guarantee that everything fits well together.
